docs: agent refactor (#8524)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Agents/agents-tools.md

---
title: Configure tools for agents
slug: /agents-tools
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

> Configure toolss connected to agents to extend their capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure tools connected to agents to extend their capabilities.
```

## Edit a tool component's actions

To edit a tool's actions, in the tool component, click <Icon name="SlidersHorizontal" aria-hidden="true"/> **Edit Tools** to modify its `name`, `description`, or `enabled` metadata.
These fields help connected agents understand how to use the action, without having to modify the agent's prompt instructions.

> For example, the [URL](/components-data#url) component has two actions available when **Tool Mode** is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the [URL](/components-data#url) component has two actions available when **Tool Mode** is enabled:
```

| Tool Name | Description | Enabled |
|-----------|-------------|---------|
| `fetch_content` | Fetch content from web pages recursively | true |
| `fetch_content_as_message` | Fetch web content formatted as messages | true |

> With these descriptions, a connected agent has a clear idea of each tool's capabilities based on the `name` and `description` metadata. The `enabled` boolean controls the tool's availability to the agent. If you think an agent is using a tool incorrectly, edit a tool's `description` metadata to help the agent better understand the tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Langflow Agent has a clear idea of each tool's capabilities based on the `name` and `description` metadata. The `enabled` boolean controls the tool's availability to the agent. If you think an agent is using a tool incorrectly, edit a tool's `description` metadata to help the agent better understand the tool.
```

## Use an agent as a tool

The agent component itself also supports **Tool Mode** for creating multi-agent flows.

Add an agent to your flow that uses a different OpenAI model for a larger context window.

1. Click and drag an **Agent** component to your workspace.
2. Add your **Open AI API Key** to the **Agent** component.
3. In the **Model Name** field, select `gpt-4.1`.
4. Click **Tool Mode** to use this new agent as a tool.
5. Connect the new agent's **Toolset** port to the previously created agent's **Tools** port.
6. Connect the **Web Search**, **URL**, and **Calculator** to the new agent.
The new agent will use `gpt-4.1` for the larger tasks of scraping and searching information that require large context windows.
The previously created agent will now use this agent as a tool, with its unique LLM and toolset.

![Agent as a tool](/img/agent-example-agent-as-tool.png)

7. The new agent's actions can be edited to help the agent understand how to use it.
Click <Icon name="SlidersHorizontal" aria-hidden="true"/> **Edit Tools** to modify its `name`, `description`, or `enabled` metadata.

> For example, the default tool name is `Agent`. Edit the name to `Agent-gpt-41`, and edit the description to `Use the gpt-4.1 model for complex problem solving`. The connected agent will understand that this is the `gpt-4.1` agent, and will use it for tasks requiring a larger context window.

Reviewer: This is pretty redundant of the "Use Langflow Agents" page. I would probably cut it down to just 1) How to enabled tool mode 2) what happens when you enable tool mode 3) how to connect a tool to an agent

0.6s
Here is the analysis of the text "Agents really are thinking machines!":
Original Text: Agents really are thinking machines!
Word Count: 5
Character Count: 36
Sentence Count: 1
Reversed Text: !senihcam gnikniht era yllaer stnegA
Uppercase Text: AGENTS REALLY ARE THINKING MACHINES!
```
</details>

The agent correctly calls the `analyze_text` action and returns the result to the Playground.

## Make any component a tool

If the component you want to use as a tool doesn't have a **Tool Mode** button, add `tool_mode=True` to one of the component's inputs, and connect the new **Toolset** output to the agent's **Tools** input.

Langflow supports **Tool Mode** for the following data types:

* `DataInput`
* `DataFrameInput`
* `PromptInput`
* `MessageTextInput`
* `MultilineInput`
* `DropdownInput`

For example, the [components as tools](#components-as-tools) example above adds `tool_mode=True` to the `MessageTextInput` input so the custom component can be used as a tool.

```python
inputs = [
    MessageTextInput(
        name="input_text",
        display_name="Input Text",
        info="Enter text to analyze",
        value="Hello, World!",
        tool_mode=True,
    ),
]
```

> ## Use the Run Flow component as a tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use flows as tools
```

I think this title better captures the use case and will pop out more in the minitoc, particularly for new users.
